Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hey Brian, how are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brian Kern: Good, how are you
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How's your health. And how's your wife.
She's good.
Brian Kern: Everything's good.
Brian Kern: Yeah, just same all standing side.
Brian Kern: Yeah, got the got the audio fixed on my phone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's going on with that.
Brian Kern: I don't know. It just, it wasn't working for, like,
Brian Kern: Two, two days and then all of a sudden I restarted it on Friday. And then I worked. I don't know. I don't know what I did to it. If I like got it wet or something. Hey, my wife WENT CAMPING LAST WEEK.
Brian Kern: And that's when it started.
You know,
Brian Kern: Yeah, it was weird, but it works now. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything that you would like to discuss today.
Brian Kern: I mean everything's pretty, pretty much been on eventful, you know,
Brian Kern: Still not working.
Brian Kern: Group yesterday was
Brian Kern: Was boring. What we talked about actually yesterday.
Brian Kern: We a
Brian Kern: I think of him. I really can't remember. Honestly, it was like
Brian Kern: One of those topics of us just
Brian Kern: Oh yeah we listen to music we listen to some piano music
Brian Kern: And then everybody just asked how it
Brian Kern: made them feel
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any emotional
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Responses to music.
Brian Kern: And if so, I mean, I
Brian Kern: Wasn't like emotional or a thing.
Brian Kern: You know, like
Brian Kern: I know how to play piano and like my, my mom taught me how to
Brian Kern: play piano and
Brian Kern: You know, after I you know after the whole machete attack. I like had to
Brian Kern: teach myself how to play piano actually actually been a while I was in rehab.
Brian Kern: In the US, that wasn't like an emotional thing for me. Right.
Brian Kern: It was cool. You know, I like Kanye music. So, you know,
Brian Kern: It was just like 10 about you know that you
Brian Kern: play piano. Yeah, so
Brian Kern: Yeah, it was cool, you know,
Brian Kern: I was actually thinking about getting like a keyboard, not like a whole like piano, just like a keyboard, you know,
Brian Kern: Especially now because it's
Brian Kern: So boring all the time, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I wanted to wanted to acquire how's this been for you. I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: sheltering in place. What has your daily routine look like
Brian Kern: Basically my daily routine is I wake up.
Brian Kern: Drink coffee.
Brian Kern: stream video games.
Brian Kern: For about
Brian Kern: You know, five or six hours.
Brian Kern: Unless my wife. So if my wife is on, they usually will like
Brian Kern: Watch some movies together some but so either those things and then
Brian Kern: Yeah, and then I will watch some like scary movies or some
Brian Kern: Now,
Brian Kern: My order in some like food, you know,
Brian Kern: Yeah, that's basically it. You know, every day is pretty much the same. So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The emotion chart big one for you in the five emotions throughout the week.
Brian Kern: You know, I've been thinking about when I'm
Like
Brian Kern: You know when I'm hungry or when I'm when I'm bored or
Brian Kern: Or anxious or
Brian Kern: You know, I've been like
Brian Kern: Keeping like not keeping notes, but keeping like
Brian Kern: mental notes, you know,
Brian Kern: Things like that, you know, I've been
Brian Kern: Thinking about a little bit, you know, or like if I'm bored all like
Brian Kern: You know, do is I'll even get bored like playing video games, you know, cuz I play a lot of same games a lot
Brian Kern: I'll just
Brian Kern: You know, watch some Netflix instead or
Brian Kern: I watched the news and watch the news a lot lately.
Brian Kern: Things like that. Yeah, been just been more more cognizant
Brian Kern: Of it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your secrecy like
Brian Kern: My, my, my routine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Please. How do you sleep.
Brian Kern: I sleep pretty, I go to sleep a lot. Early on, my wife like I'll go to sleep around like 11 and
Brian Kern: Yeah, no. Yeah, and that's like 1111 is usually like
Brian Kern: Late sometimes it will be like 10 but
Brian Kern: At the same time, I'll just like I don't really fall asleep at that time, I just kind of lay there.
Brian Kern: Wanting to sleep.
Brian Kern: And then
Brian Kern: I'll fall asleep at like
Brian Kern: midnight, and then, sleep until about I get up every morning at eight o'clock.
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: Most the time I see
Brian Kern: Throughout all night. No.
Brian Kern: No, he
likes them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So no challenges with sleeping.
Brian Kern: No.
Brian Kern: No, yeah, I see. Fine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, when I when I asked about the emotions. And you mentioned
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know you've been checking out when you're hungry when you're anxious when you're four. How about measurable emotions, any, any other emotions aside from kind of like distressing or ones that aren't so good that you'd notice
Brian Kern: Oh yeah, I mean all notice when I'm
Brian Kern: When I'm like in a good mood, things like that.
Brian Kern: Like yesterday I was in a really good mood.
Brian Kern: Oh, nothing. You know, it wasn't anything in particular just it was a nice day. Oh.
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: Oh yeah, we were
Brian Kern: Talking about getting a dog. Yesterday, we might get a dog.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or a cat in the background. Do you have a cat.
Brian Kern: Yeah, we have.
Brian Kern: Two cats. And we also have a pet rat we hadn't. We actually had to pet RAS.
Brian Kern: One of them died like a week ago.
Brian Kern: So,
Brian Kern: But yeah
Brian Kern: Yeah, you're gonna dog because our casket, along with dogs.
Brian Kern: And we've been
Brian Kern: We've been just wanting a dog for a while. So we're like keep our eye out for dogs.
Brian Kern: You know, dogs that just would be good for our little apartment, you know. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have a particular breed in mind.
Brian Kern: No, not really. I'm the one we were looking at
Brian Kern: That ended up getting adopted was a miniature schnauzer which is like a German dog.
Brian Kern: Actually, the one that the kind of dog that I grew up with.
Brian Kern: An A. And there's another one we were looking at it was
Brian Kern: It was like a golden retriever mix or something.
Brian Kern: I'm not sure we're not trying to get a dog. It's like too big, only because we live in such a small place.
Yeah.
Brian Kern: Yeah. And then there's another dog or thinking about, but that dollar was like 11 years old and has like behavioral problems of some sort.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I mean it's sad because then you know you hear that tie that in a lot of people probably have the same natural response you know know so i mean you definitely have to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have one. The, the patience to tolerate the skills and the space to accommodate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That type of dog, and for that to be something that you like interested in kind of like the behavior modification of head because the older daughter has behavior issues if you're
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going into it because you want it to nurture a pet, you know, and to be a pet owner, then you're going to have a different mindset, since I could be a little frustrating.
Brian Kern: Yeah, I mean I there's actually a neighborhood dog. Then I walk
Brian Kern: You know, I don't know if you say it has behavioral issues, but it definitely has
Brian Kern: It's like a really big dog, and he has, like, kind of like anxiety issues. I guess he said like, he freaks out a lot. And he'll start barking like nothing
Brian Kern: You know, but
Brian Kern: You know, I still, I wouldn't even mind having a dog like that. Like, I don't want to like behaviorally street dog.
Brian Kern: Were like he like he or she starts like you know
Brian Kern: Eating the French are like trying to attack or cats are solving, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm interested in your observation of the dog. You said that you observed that he may have anxiety.
Brian Kern: Yeah. Yes. Something like those
Brian Kern: You know, he knows he knows both being my wife.
Brian Kern: And like every time we go to walk on. You still acts like scared. You know, like you can. He's like, visibly scared, even though, as soon as we like get his leash. Then he gets all happy. But before then. He looks kind of like scared, but I think that's because his owner
Brian Kern: Like his owners this couple we know in the neighborhood, and that the guy.
Brian Kern: Moved out like suddenly
Brian Kern: I don't know, like, something happened there.
Brian Kern: And I think he's still kind of freaked out about that, whatever, whatever happened but
Brian Kern: I'm not sure what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It is
Brian Kern: So I think it has something to do with that maybe
Brian Kern: So,
Brian Kern: I don't know, but
Brian Kern: Yeah, I mean, he's like visibly scared, whenever we come, you know, we kind of have to like approach of slowly, you know, I mean, and kind of like let them sniff our hand and then we
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Pay them a little bit and then we grabbed a leash nice happy and
Brian Kern: Peaceful yeah that's like those first few minutes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He said, when you're out and about to his responses when people want to buy
Brian Kern: Yeah, he wants to play with, like everybody and like say it everybody and
Brian Kern: You know, once he's out of the house. He's fun. I think it's just when
Brian Kern: People come into the house. It's like as soon as he leaves the house, he's fine you know
Brian Kern: Yeah.
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What you've learned about your anxiety. How has that assisted you and how you deal with this dog that you want.
Brian Kern: Oh, whoa, yeah. Like I'll approach them slowly and like kind of like
Brian Kern: Sweet talk a little bit and like
Brian Kern: You know, make sure he knows. Everything's okay. Like, I'm not gonna like attack or something.
Brian Kern: You know, I mean, I really feel like it has something to do with the guy that
Brian Kern: Cuz like I guess her his owners like ex boyfriend or whatever, like I feel like it really has something to do with that.
Brian Kern: You know, like, I don't know, it's like
Brian Kern: He's just like
Brian Kern: Anxious anxious. You know, I think I might just be like,
Brian Kern: Yeah, something, something that has to do is really, he's not like that with my wife either like he's only
Brian Kern: Only like that with me. So I think
Brian Kern: It's like kind of like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: mail saying
Brian Kern: I could be wrong. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's go good that you're curious and you're assessing the situation and says, like you're, you may be more aware of what anxiety and how it presents itself because of your own different emotional responses. Someone else may not have noticed
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, one thing I wanted to mention to you is, and I never shared it was discussed it with you is that I'm licensed in the state of Florida and Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I know we see each other on a weekly basis in the event that your background looks a little different on my X. Hey, where are you located. I'm in as because of the tele health. I have to verify your location. And so that means if you go outside of the state of New Mexico because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'll hold a license there. I wouldn't be able to see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For that session, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's like an emergency situation, then, of course, I wouldn't turn you away. But I just want you to be aware of.
Brian Kern: Order.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I see your background look different. My axe. Where are you, and it's more so because I'm trying to make sure that I'm within a mile to make the nature of my license in the next
Brian Kern: Okay, there's only one point which I
Brian Kern: may leave New Mexico, and that's the first week first week of August, because I had my court date to get off probation, but
Brian Kern: I'm not even sure that I have to go.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Brian Kern: I'm still trying to figure out
Brian Kern: Is actually going to be like a pain in the ass.
Brian Kern: It's kind of stupid.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where, where would that be, where's that court date located
Brian Kern: Virginia
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let me know what's hot closer to that time. And like you said you don't even know if you have to do or not.
Brian Kern: Yeah, I'm not even sure why I'm on probation anymore. Really, cuz
Brian Kern: The rest of my probation has been kind of cancelled because it coven 19 like they told me that, like, basically, I mean it's not cancelled, but it's like my all my appointments. I have appointments once a month, and they're over the phone and literally just like
Brian Kern: She asked me, have you committed any crimes and I'm just saying no.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brian Kern: It's kind of weird, but
Brian Kern: Yeah, as you know, still
Brian Kern: Still going to do with these people tell me. Yeah.
Yeah.
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: Yeah, it's kinda like stupid that I have to go back for
Brian Kern: To be off from Beijing to because there. I think it's only because they're dropping my charge from felony, because I don't. I didn't have any felony felony on my record before this.
Brian Kern: And part of the fee agreement was invited and violate my probation, they would drop into a
Brian Kern: misdemeanor. So I think that's why I have to go back to the core.
Brian Kern: I'm not sure. Yeah, but I'm
Brian Kern: Gonna try not to like, I'm going to try to see if like
Brian Kern: My lawyer can go for me like I have like a quarter point a lawyer.
Brian Kern: Or something, because that's going to be like a pain in the ass.
Brian Kern: You know, like
Brian Kern: flying back just to go to like a 20 minute coordinate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As Joe
Brian Kern: Yeah, I'm not too worried about. It's like in three months so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I wanted to play this video that talks about anxiety because I know what the PTSD. Once we assimilate back into going out and about some of those stressors might be triggered again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any triggers that you've identified since we last spoke
Brian Kern: No. Yes. So it's been
Brian Kern: Really an eventful yeah um
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well with things. I sometimes that's a good thing to just go to Korea just you know nothing, no waves or anything like that.
Brian Kern: I was actually, I was really anxious before
Brian Kern: My probation meeting because I didn't know that it was. I didn't know. Like I always get nervous, like, not because like I violated, but just because it's like I have to go talk to police. It just makes me nervous.
Brian Kern: And I didn't know it was going to be over the phone.
Brian Kern: When I call her to make sure that I had to go in because I didn't know. So that was the only time I got a really anxious
Brian Kern: You know, like I wouldn't call it a trigger. Is this more like a
Brian Kern: Situational type thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's a natural occurrence like anyone that has to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Speak with one enforcement those happen situation for do some level of a ride.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: share my screen.
Hey, parents, would you like to help boost your child's confidence.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So here's the amazing thing about your brain. It's made to rewire itself, all the time. This is called Neuro plasticity.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Scientists used to think that after childhood our brain was pretty much locked in place. But now that we have better imaging technology. We can literally see how the brain changes depending on how we use it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in this video I'm going to talk about one very simple thing you can do to rewire your brain to be less anxious
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it is simple but it's not easy. So I'm also going to share three steps you can take to make it happen and share 10 extra skills that you can develop on your own.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or with the therapist to build up your ability to take control of your anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if you'd like to learn more in depth information about how to treat your anxiety. I've got a course on you to me that I'm working on. It's called rewiring the anxious brain so you can also check out that link in the description.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's start off with one example of Neuro plasticity in London. The taxi drivers have this super difficult exam where they have to prepare by memorizing all the streets and events and locations in this huge city.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Researchers took images of their brain before they started studying and after this two year process and they were literally able to see the new neural connections, the wiring the changed in the brain.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there's good evidence that changing how you think like going to therapy can actually change the structure of your brain and the types of chemicals that it's pumping out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our brain has an amazing ability to rewire itself to learn grow and heal. So let's talk about how to do that with anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If we want to change how our brain processes, anxiety, we understand three principles of anxiety. Number one,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Understand what is anxiety. Now, this may sound dumb because you already know what anxiety feels like. But what you need to do is understand that your perspective on anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You need to let go of the idea that anxiety is bad anxiety is not inherently bad anxiety is uncomfortable sometimes anxiety is disordered.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sometimes anxiety gets in the way, but we all experience anxiety because it's supposed to serve a really important function to motivate us to avoid real danger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're supposed to feel anxious when standing on a cliff edge, it helps us be safe. We're supposed to feel anxious when we know we have an important test coming up, because that should motivate us to study.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anxiety tells us that something is important to us, anxiety and excitement are basically the same chemical reaction in your body.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With adrenaline it triggering that sympathetic activation and prepping you for action.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We look at anxiety as being uncomfortable but acceptable and a normal part of life. Suddenly we develop new tools to work with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that includes working with the other type of anxiety. So the second thing we need to understand is, we need to understand disordered anxiety and this is when anxiety seems to take over your life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is anxiety that makes it hard to go to work to school or to enjoy life at all and the harder you try to make it go away, the stronger and stronger it gets
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now contrary to popular belief that anxiety disorder when it's more severe anxiety is actually disordered when one of two things happened.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When number one. When you feel in danger when you're actually safe and I made a video on this. It's called perceived versus actual safety, for example, I worked with a client who was afraid of radiators.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She would feel anxious and sweaty around them and she couldn't make herself and go into a room with a radio in it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now radiators are not actually dangerous, but she was having a real physiological response to something that was actually safe.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So anxiety can be disordered when you have a danger response in your body, but you're actually safe. The second way anxiety can be disordered is when your anxiety interferes with your ability to function.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is essentially what determines if you meet the criteria for an anxiety disorder diagnosis. When your anxiety or your attempts to avoid anxiety stop you from effectively facing life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When this happens, you start avoiding school or calling in sick to work, you stop leaving the house or spending time with friends, pretty senior anxiety is taking over your life and stopping you from doing the things you love
So let's talk about what causes anxiety to spiral out of control. This is called the anxiety cycle.
Every day throughout our day. We have experiences and we interpret these experiences as either being safe or dangerous.
So let's say for example you see a dog. Now, each person interprets and experienced differently for some people, this would be exciting and fun but for some reason you think that dog is going to bite me
This leads to feelings of fear, anxiety, maybe even panic. These are uncomfortable feelings and you may even take them as a sign that your thoughts are true. So you escape you run away you get out of there and nothing bad happens. So your brain releases this surge of relief.
That was close. The only way I survived was because I ran away. I could have died and your brain thinks I better do that again. I'm going to motivate my human to avoid that situation by increasing their anxiety about it. And voila, your anxiety goes up.
Every single time that we avoid a threat and survive our brain thinks. Let's do that again so it lays down neural pathways this wiring that reinforces that behavior.
And the whole function of emotions is to motivate us to action. But that's all of the video. So our brain.
Because we convinced it the dogs threat takes action into its own hands and it increases your anxiety level around dogs.
Every time you feel anxiety and then avoid the situation or anxiety level will go up a notch. So this is, principle number three avoidance shields disordered anxiety.
Literally creates overwhelming anxiety. Now, there are lots of ways to avoid there's running away and physically avoiding but there's also emotional avoidance.
So if you have social anxiety, you might still go to the party, but only if you get drunk ahead of time.
Or you might be in a relationship but scared of getting hurt so you don't allow yourself to let the other person into your heart.
You stay emotionally distant or you protect yourself fine not committing social media anger blame distraction and even coping skills can be avoided.
Regardless of the type of avoidance, it increases your anxiety and even worse, it shrinks down your world.
So with the dog example you might start avoiding situations where a dog might be present, by not going to friends homes or skipping the park.
And your world shrinks you miss out on good relationships or you stop going to parties and your world gets more and more constrained
Avoidance can make your world small and scary and unhappy. But every time you get anxious and avoid something and survive your brain increases your anxiety in that area.
Now looking at this cycle, we have two places where we can intervene, where we can stop that anxiety from spiraling out of control.
The first place is with our actions when we feel anxiety, but we're actually safe. If we stick with it if we stay there. We experience our emotions and sensations without running away. And again, if you do this, and you don't die, then your brain learns
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What a relief. I guess that not all dogs are dangerous. Let's do that again and it sends out a surge a relief.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This leads to a gradual decrease in anxiety over time and a gradual increase in your emotional muscles, your ability to feel emotions and sensations that are uncomfortable.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Without needing to escape them all the time. So you get better at feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As you do this, your brain literally lays down new neural pathways, saying, not all dogs are dangerous. I don't need to be anxious around dogs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it literally changes your brain chemistry releasing less cortisol and adrenaline and other stress hormones. This is the most straightforward way to rewire your brain to have less anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I get it. This is super hard if it were easy, he would have already done it. So I'm going to break it down into three big steps for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know. On a side note, the second place in the cycle to intervene is with your thoughts, changing how you think about the dog.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And this can be a powerful and effective treatment to but it can also get really complicated and it works best before you're anxious, rather than during
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now I talked about some of the ways you can change your thinking in other videos. But in this video we're going to talk about the most straightforward way to rewire the anxious brain. And that's through action.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, how to do it. There are three steps. So step one, make an exposure hierarchy. I've made an entire video about this, but basically you take one thing that scares you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you break it down into teeny tiny steps and you start by courageously facing the easiest one first. Now this is the part that most people miss the jump into fast and then they panic or they escape and they never do it again and then that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The video so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what did you get from watching the video.
Brian Kern: Well basically I got it like
Brian Kern: It takes a change in the weeds think
Brian Kern: You know i mean to like
Brian Kern: Really get rid of anxiety and that's like before you're anxious, you know, I mean,
Brian Kern: I feel like that would be like really hard to do the, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The most difficult part
Brian Kern: Is like
Brian Kern: You know, like let's say I'm anxious about like leaving the house.
Brian Kern: You know, I guess I'll have to end like
Brian Kern: You know, I've gotten better about like
Brian Kern: Thinking that I'm safe, like when I'm walking around outside so
Brian Kern: You know, there's always like a lingering fear of like what could happen. You know, I mean, so it's like I feel like that would be like the hardest thing to get rid of. It's like, you know, because like anything can happen you know and i mean
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like I almost feel like I'd have to convince myself that
Brian Kern: It would be impossible.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For something bad, not to happen. You know, I, man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. So already implementing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just that realistic perspective. And in that sphere like the world that we live in. Anything can happen, but giving yourself to the place of not allowing this anxiety to be the type that in pair of shoes from everyday functioning.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, it's already diagnosis. So clearly, there have been some aspects of your function that has been impaired.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But now how do we work through that. And so the identity. The identification of the realness of this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But also not looking through that filter lens of just everything that could go wrong, but look into that bigger picture. Okay, but what are all the things that can go right so not limiting your view to the next.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's why
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Aside from the emotions. I've noticed patterns when our X emotion charts motion checked in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You'll give me kind of like the emotions that are not so good but very rarely do I hear like, you know what, actually, you know, I had some happy moments you know so I pay more attention to those moments that are pleasurable.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: pleasurable emotions, fear, anxiety, allows you to see it through that filter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And black or white type of thinking words always are the Nevers things that aren't working well. But now through that bigger frame, the big picture.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thinking about the next time your brain tells you all the things that could go wrong. You think I'm wrong on this, I can go right yesterday. I did a, b, and c. And I will say return home sick.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Today can be just like yesterday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something as simple as that. Because again, the more you avoid situations, the more your brain protects you as hey okay avoidance is working well. So we'll just continue to do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Break up the anxiety, you know, another notch. But whenever you go into present to the situation anxiety lessons. Just a little less. So, you know, speaking to law enforcement, probably the first time that you did it for anxiety was maybe at a 10
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Time you do it. Yeah. Yeah. And then it continues, because now you kind of know what to expect but some of the unknown is already taken out of the situation and now you can go back to what's familiar
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that familiarity. What it does is it it compartmentalize in the brain and then allows the brain to go back to home. Okay. The last time we went. This is what we could expect a, b, and c
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So Amendola. We don't have to do the fight, flight, or freeze because we already know that this isn't a threatening situation. We don't need to activate in survival mode for Brian because he was able to get out of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Make sense
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I'm thinking, even though that sweet little dog that you're walking to I'm pretty sure the more he sees you. The more you present to him in that calming nature and and you know meeting with him first seeing him at it for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A pulling on his leash that over time, you know, his defense me go down because now he even the dog's brain. This is being able to source and filter out like every time. Brian has came I returned back safe.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And he hasn't done you know he's a male like that other guy in the event that happened. I've always returned back saying so over time, even his brain will be able to source and filter out that Brian is a safe space. My threat. My threat mechanisms don't need to come back on.
Brian Kern: It's kind of like with my pet rat to my
Brian Kern: She you know bites me or she used to buy me a lot. But ever since, you know, I'm the one that gives her food and like cleans their cages up and now she like looks forward to make coming over to her and give her food like
Brian Kern: Manner. So
Brian Kern: Yeah. Makes sense.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, your brain that that alternative situation right in there that for the point
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: there been any other changes that you notice in your brain. We talked about the example with on and that will not force and what other ways that you notice that you know there's been some thought diffusion and matters.
Brian Kern: To me is more like, Sure, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you as a sprayer game probably create that filter where it doesn't allow you to notice. So what I would want you to do is notice those things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it gives your brain that the new compartment to to create the about, you know, the brain, like the store. It's had maybe about two aisles within the store.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And those hours happen related to trauma and anxiety. But if you create a new I'll bet. Okay, now there's other places to go other places to venture in your brain to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Create a new pathway. These were my successes. These were situations where I have pleasurable motion for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trauma is not my everyday situation.
Brian Kern: Hmm, the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trauma is a part of mine. My life. You know, it's part of my life story, but it doesn't have to be part of everyday function.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, allowing allowing the brain the hippocampus. Does that that processing for you. So in doing that creates that new channel that new pathway so that whenever your senses, you know, gets activated, it doesn't immediately go down to the amygdala.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By doing the fight identification and the process and it creates a new channel now for the brain to now say, Hey, let's let's call them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the Department for Brian
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are ways or events that you could think that would help.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Activate that new channel in your brain that we're talking about.
Brian Kern: Oh,
Brian Kern: Like, new, new things I can do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, or just everyday occurrences that maybe like you, Richard and haven't thought of, but now in this moment kind of thinking about, okay, maybe there was a time when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I activated that
Brian Kern: Sure, say,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was it like for you when you first started the program and had to go to group there. Was there any insights
Brian Kern: From
Brian Kern: Not really. I mean, maybe the first group but like
Brian Kern: I feel like I'm so used to it. Only because like at first to act in jail. I had
Brian Kern: I went to already have and I feel like I've been in programs for the last few years. So there's not really a whole lot of anxiety that's tied to it, you know, especially not in this group because it's like I feel like there's there's new people like every week, almost. So it's like
There's
Brian Kern: You know there's there's like Mary
Brian Kern: Yeah, there's always like new people and this always changing and stuff, you know, I mean, so like no matter what, there's going to be a new person or two in there. You know what I mean.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's critically important.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: there been any emotions that perhaps you have avoided.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just for the sake of not trying to deal with anxiety.
Brian Kern: No, I don't think so. I mean,
Brian Kern: There are things in the past I've tried to avoid
Brian Kern: Thinking about like
Brian Kern: Not recently but like
Brian Kern: You know, like before I got sentence for my charge like I'll avoid thinking about that so I don't get anxious or like all avoid
Brian Kern: You know, things like that, not nothing really really recently the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Situation.
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be effective to help you accomplish that goal.
Brian Kern: Yeah, I think the biggest thing is like
Brian Kern: The biggest thing they'll say, reduce in his time. Honestly, like just
Time.
Brian Kern: From, like,
Brian Kern: Feeling like my life is threatened or feeling just
Brian Kern: Out of control. You know, like the furthest I the furthest I feel away from an event where I feel out of control.
Brian Kern: About something and it's like the less
Brian Kern: Anxious. I get, you know, like I still like anxious, but
Brian Kern: It's more like
Brian Kern: You know, just kind of like high like cortisol levels in the more you know like high cortisol levels and like stress hormones in the morning and stuff like that that like won't be attached to anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Fun like
Brian Kern: You know, eventually that goes away and then like, you know, sometimes I'll sit and just
Brian Kern: You know, think about their like I'm saved. I literally have nothing to be anxious about right now. You know, I mean, things like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Might be permitted statements work really well for you.
Brian Kern: Yeah, that's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just allowing yourself that in the present moment. If you are experiencing that is designed to do the grounding activities will be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Three things you see things you can touch freakin chicken here and then the deep breathing. That also helps moment to bring you back to present
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How would you know enough time has passed because you said that time is be a big indicator for you. Three.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How do you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How do you decide for when that time has been enough
Not sure.
Brian Kern: You know, I mean, like, a lot of times past since the machete attack.
Brian Kern: And since then, you know, I feel like I feel way less anxious, leaving the house now than I did like three years ago, you know, I mean, or six years ago, you know,
Brian Kern: I don't know that the lever be a time where I like always feel completely safe, you know, I mean, which might be a good thing really because you know because like I don't want to be caught off guard or something.
You know,
Brian Kern: Yeah, I don't think it's
Brian Kern: You know, it's not like I mean. There has been times when I've had like crippling anxiety, you know, but if
Brian Kern: I FEEL. I EVEN. That's like not tight anything. It's just all like all feel anxious for like no reason you know i mean
Brian Kern: Like as far as like anxiety tied to like violence, you know, I feel like
Brian Kern: You know, I'm like a lot of time has passed since like violence happens
Brian Kern: And
Brian Kern: You know, like now I can like leave the house.
Brian Kern: Feeling relatively safe, you know. And like I said, I still keep waking vigilant and I around and I still like
Brian Kern: I mean where I'm all i surroundings and the people around me and
Brian Kern: And stuff like that.
Brian Kern: You know, I mean, so as far as like
Brian Kern: Anxiety to where like, I feel threatened and I feel like that's like a all time low. You know, I mean,
Brian Kern: You know, I still, you know, as I said, I still keep my head on a swivel but it's like
Brian Kern: You know, like I can leave the house and feel
Brian Kern: Confident that I'm not. No one's going to try to attack me for no reason.
Brian Kern: You know, oh
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That sounds like a good place to be because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We all need a certain level of anxiety to protect us from dangers to be aware and conscious that is also meant to protect us anxiety isn't always negative.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So where I would want you to explore more of those moments where you said the inside just comes out of nowhere and I would venture to say that it's not out of nowhere. Something underlying either certain stressors that are in the subconscious.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Certain environments. It's certain senses that's been activated.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For the anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that's just the way the brain operates. It's not independent. It works. It works in conjunction with other things. So there's definitely something going on and into to get curious about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: During this time to just be more curious about different things. I know with with the pandemic, even though I'm, you know, still actively employed definitely gets me those downtime.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To think more about things like more things because I'm not out running errands as before. So using that time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have any questions or thoughts before we wrap up.
Brian Kern: Thanks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They put another client on my calendar for six, by any chance, could I see you at five.
Brian Kern: Yeah works. Next, next week five o'clock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, Wednesday, the 20th
Brian Kern: Okay. That works.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, I'll see you then.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Take care.
Brian Kern: Okay, I think it is connected. Okay. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. Sounds good.
Brian Kern: Alright, cool. Alright. Thank you, Jessica.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You too. Bye bye.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Therapy skills that we use endless session. What CVT, as well as the beauty skills come patient presents a procession on time with a comma effect on us with mode.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Want to work on emotion regulations for the next session and more information cycle education about PTSD and the effects.